Python became the choice for Data Science - how | let's know

Data Science is gaining popularity exponentially over the past decade, and thanks to that we are now enjoying better products, recommendations, and smoother life. Data science is an interdisciplinary subject that includes statistics, math, IT, etc.

Now there is so much to do in Data Science,  so we need an arrangement where all this can be accessible in one place. It will be very hectic to go to hundreds of different resources while doing analysis or building models. But don’t worry, PYTHON is there for you.

1. Python is a progressively typed language, so the variables are defined automatically.

2. Python is more readable and uses lesser code to play out a similar task when contrasted with other programming languages.

3. Python is specifically typed. In this way, developers need to cast types manually.

4. Python is an interpreted language. This implies the program need not have complied.

5. Python is flexible, convenient, and can run on any platform effectively. It is adaptable and can be integrated with other third-party software effectively.

This library available in python makes it very easier to analyze the data, you can read a variety of data sets like CSV, XML, XLSX, JSON, etc. You can perform several operations like Groupby, sorting with the help of easily accessible objects from pandas.

This package helps you with any numerical operation that is needed to be performed in Data science, for example calculating Euclidean distance, finding ranks of the matrix, etc.

These are excellent data visualization libraries available in python that produce some excellent visualization like shown here,

It provides you state of the art machine learning algorithms for your accurate predictive analysis. Scikit–Learn is characterized by a clean, uniform, and streamlined API, as well as by very useful and complete online documentation. It provides a selection of efficient tools for machine learning and statistical modeling including classification, regression, clustering, and dimensionality reduction via a consistent interface in Python.

Keras is an open-source software library that provides a Python interface for artificial neural networks. Keras acts as an interface for the TensorFlow library. Keras is an industry-strength framework that can scale to large clusters of GPUs or an entire TPU pod.

Seeing the stats we can clearly see that Python has taken over other Languages needed for data science. It has also surpassed R which is exclusively built for Data science. Isn’t this exciting.

Python in Data science has empowered data scientists to accomplish more in less time. Python is an adaptable programming language that can be effectively understood and is exceptionally amazing as well.

Python is highly adaptable and can work in any environment effectively. Additionally, with negligible changes, it can run on any operating system and can be integrated with other programming languages. These qualities have settled on Python as the top choice for developers & data scientists.

So next time you do analysis or work on any Data Science project, feel proud cause you are working with the most loved language of the world.
